# TicketBlock Project

# Abstract

The Ethereum blockchain is starting to become more utilised compared to recent years. Especially with its recent system upgrade known as the merge which cuts down its high energy usage. Nowadays, the most popular type of applications is centralised based applications. Dynamically generated data either gets written to a non-relational database or a relational one that stores data within tables. However, there is a difference between decentralised and centralised applications. In decentralised systems, every single transaction gets placed into the blockchain which is a publicly accessible distributed ledger. Anybody in the world has access to the blockchain database. Its immutability nature renders its data highly secure and reliable. Nowadays, as there are more and more events being organised and hosted by individuals, there are a couple of critical problems that we face. One of them being event tickets being tampered and the second one being replicated and counterfeited versions.

This priject analyses and evaluates the implementation of a basic marketplace used to prevent fake event tickets being resold. Non-fungible tokens are used for this. At the same time conveying how useful these tokens can be for proof of ownership using complex blockchain technologies. Throughout the development of the marketplace which aims to solve the above-mentioned problems, it has been found by observing the code outputs that once a non-fungible token is minted on the blockchain through a smart contract written in solidity, every single transaction is timestamped and recorded sequentially. Hence, copies of them cannot be made. Transaction data can be viewed inside the logs of every meta mask wallet account that is connected to the application. Thus, switching between accounts always shows different transactions that have been processed at various times. For example, when a token was minted, listed on sale, or purchased. Finally, it has also been found that the same token cannot be purchased twice because a unique ID for every token is generated and incremented every time a token is minted. Disallowing the same token from being bought a second time.

# Introduction

Nowadays blockchain-oriented decentralized applications are starting to become more and more popular. These types of applications are adversaries to the typical centralised ones due to its strong tamper-proof, immutability and secure nature. The most widely recognized and heavily used blockchain is Ethereum. In addition to the aforementioned, a serious issue that we come across daily are expensive premium event tickets being tampered and resold on malicious websites by individuals who might create fake tickets. Purposefully counterfeiting them from the original owners to prevent paying for the original ticket to attend an event. Therefore, to overcome this problem, the paper focuses on addressing how we can take advantage of non-fungible tokens to allow ticket buyers to prove that they are the ones who purchased a specific ticket. Eliminating any malicious activity. Disallowing individuals from gaining access to different classes of tickets where they range in price which can cost a lot of money. Furthermore, the proposed web application that is to be developed does not support debit or credit card payments for purchasing event tickets. On the one hand, mainly due to security reasons. On the other hand, the fact that governed authorities such as banks are generally involved to verify the authenticity of transactions. Hence, this can take a very long time and can potentially fail if malicious activity is detected. Instead, to bypass the problem of transaction approval delays, the proposed marketplace system that is going be developed supports smart contract functionality that executes on the blockchain ledger instead.
